CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR CYBERCRIME OFFENCES
The previous section stressed the need for a comprehensive classification of the cybercrime offences in order
to understand, classify, and combat particular incidents.
According to [47], the Convention on Cybercrime is the most
important and comprehensive international instrument aiming
to facilitate worldwide cooperation and establish a common
basis for substantive and procedural law. Toward the same
direction, Yuanrong et al. [48] emphasizes the importance
of cooperate actions by policy makers to minimize differences and to recognize the existing legislative defects. This
section introduces an offence classification system based on
two levels. The first level consists of the four different
types of cybercrime offences introduced in the Convention on
Cybercrime [10] with the authors’ addition of a new type:
the combinational offences. For each level-1 offence type,
there are level-2 subcategories based on further analysis by
Gercke [49]. The authors propose this two-level consolidation
of cybercrime offence along with appropriate modifications
and updates in order to provide a comprehensive cybercrime
offence classification system. The level-1 classification of
cybercrime offences provides a set of five generic categories
or types as follows.
1) Type A (Offences Against the Confidentiality, Integrity
and Availability of Computer Data and Systems): Type
A includes the core of computer-related offences,
offences against the confidentiality, integrity and availability of computer data and systems, representing the
major threats, as identified in the discussions on computer and data security to which electronic data processing and communicating systems are exposed [12]. The
types of crime covered are mostly unauthorized access
and illicit tampering with systems, programs or data.
2) Type B (Computer-Related Offences): Type B includes
cybercrime offences in which computer and telecommunication systems are used as the method to attack
specific legal interests that are mostly protected already
by criminal law against attacks using traditional means.
Computer-related fraud and forgery have been added
by the following suggestions in the guidelines of the
Council of Europe Recommendation No. R (89) 9 [50].
3) Type C (Content-Related Offences): This type encompasses the offences that require the use of computer
systems as a medium and entail abusive content. It
includes sexual exploitation of children, illegal pornography, religious offences, and cyberbullying, offences
with content considered abusive for most western
countries.
4) Type D (Offences Related to Infringements of Copyright
and Related Rights): This type of offences was
included in the Convention Treaty [10] because
copyright infringements are one of the most
widespread forms of computer- or computer-related
crime and its escalation is causing international
concern.
5) Type E (Combinational Offences): Due to increasing
law enforcement collaboration and public concern-alert,
offenders improvise and progress their methods in order
to maintain their effectiveness. Criminal activities such  as cyber laundering, phishing and terrorist use of the
Internet cover acts that combine a number of different
offences in sole acts, which necessitates the introduction
of this category.